{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Absolute poverty\'a0
\f1\b0 The condition of having too little income to buy the necessities-- food, shelter, clothing, health care.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Achieved status\'a0
\f1\b0 A social position (status) obtained through an individual's own talents and efforts.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Affirmative action\'a0
\f1\b0 The requirement that employers make special efforts to recruits hire and promote qualified members of previously excluded groups including women and minorities.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Aggregate\'a0
\f1\b0 A collection of unrelated people who do not know one another but who may occupy a common space--for example, a crowd of people crossing a city street.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Agrarian societies\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies in which large scale cultivation using plows and draft animals is the primary means of subsistence.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Alienation\'a0
\f1\b0 The separation or estrangement of individuals from themselves and from others.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Amalgamation\'a0
\f1\b0 The biological as well as cultural assimilation (merging) of racial or ethnic groups.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Anomalies\'a0
\f1\b0 In science observations or problems that cannot be explained or solved in terms of a prevailing paradigm.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Anomie\'a0
\f1\b0 A breakdown or confusion in the norms, values, and culture of a group or a society. A condition of relative normlessness.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Anomie theory\'a0
\f1\b0 The theory suggesting that deviance and crime occur when there is an acute gap between cultural norms and goals and the socially structured opportunities for individuals to achieve those goals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Anticipatory socialization\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of taking on the attitudes values and behaviors of a status or role one expects to occupy in the future.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Apartheid\'a0
\f1\b0 The recent policy of racial separation in South Africa enforced by legal political and military power.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ascribed status\'a0
\f1\b0 A social position (status) such as sex, race, and social class that a person acquires at birth.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Assimilation\'a0
\f1\b0 The merging of minority and majority groups into one group with a come mon culture and identity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Association\'a0
\f1\b0 A group of people bound together by common goals and rules, but not necessarily by close personal ties.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Athletics\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of sport that is closer to work than to play.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Authority\'a0
\f1\b0 Power regarded as legitimate.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Autocracy\'a0
\f1\b0 Rule or government concentrated in a single ruler or group of leaders who are willing to use force to maintain control.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Baby boom\'a0
\f1\b0 The people who were born in the United States between 1946 and 1965. This group represented a sharp increase in birth rates and in the absolute number of births compared to pre-1946 levels.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Bias The influence of a scientist's personal values and attitudes on scientific observations and conclusions.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \cb3 Bicultural\'a0
\f1\b0 The capacity to understand and function well in more than one cultural group.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Birth rate\'a0
\f1\b0 Number of births per year per 1000 women 15 to 44 years old.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Bureaucracy\'a0
\f1\b0 A large-scale formal organization with centralized authority, a hierarchical chain of command, explicit rules and procedures, and an emphasis on formal positions rather than on persons.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Calling
\f1\b0 \'a0The idea in certain branches of ascetic Protestantism that one can live acceptably to God by fulfilling the obligations imposed by one's secular position in the world.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Capitalism\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of economic organization in which private individuals accumulate and invest capital, own the means of production, and control profits.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Caste system\'a0
\f1\b0 A closed system of social stratification in which prestige and social relationships are based on hereditary position at birth.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Centrally planned economy\'a0
\f1\b0 An economic system that includes public ownership of or control over all productive resources and whose activity is planned by the government.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Charisma\'a0
\f1\b0 The exceptional mystical or even supernatural quality of personality attributed to a person by others. Literally, "the gift of grace."\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Charismatic leader\'a0
\f1\b0 An individual who enlists the strong emotional support of followers through personal and seemingly supernatural qualities.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Charter\'a0
\f1\b0 The capacity of certain schools to confer special rights on their graduates.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Church\'a0
\f1\b0 A formally organized, institutionalized religious organization with formal and traditional religious doctrine, beliefs, and practices.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 City\'a0
\f1\b0 A relatively permanent settlement of large numbers of people who do not grow or gather their own food.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Civil law\'a0
\f1\b0 The branch of law that deals largely with wrongs against the individual.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Civil religion\'a0
\f1\b0 The interweaving of religious and political symbols in public life.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Class\'a0
\f1\b0 Position in a social hierarchy based on prestige and/or property ownership.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Class conflict\'a0
\f1\b0 The struggle between competing classes, specifically between the class that owns the means of production and the class or classes that do not.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Class consciousness\'a0
\f1\b0 The sense of common class position and shared interests held by members of a social class.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Class system\'a0
\f1\b0 A system of stratification based primarily on the unequal ownership and control of economic resources.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Closed system\'a0
\f1\b0 In organizational theory, the degree to which an organization is shut off from its environment.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Coercion\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of social interaction in which one is made to do something through the use of social pressure, threats, or force.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cognitive development\'a0
\f1\b0 The systematic improvement of intellectual ability through a series of stages.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cognitive development theory\'a0
\f1\b0 Suggests that individuals try to pattern their lives and experiences to form a reasonably consistent picture of their beliefs, actions, and values.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cohort\'a0
\f1\b0 Persons who share something in common, usually being born in the same year or time period.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Commitment\'a0
\f1\b0 Willingness of members of a group to do what is needed to maintain the group.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Community\'a0
\f1\b0 A collection of people in a geographical area; may also include the idea that the collection has a social structure and a sense of community spirit or belonging.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Comparable worth\'a0
\f1\b0 A policy of equal pay for men and women doing similar work, even if the jobs are labeled differently by sex.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Competition\'a0
\f1\b0 A goal-directed form of social interaction in which the goals or objects pursued are limited, so not all competitors can attain them. Competitive behavior is governed by rules and limitations (restraints) .\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Complementary marriages\'a0
\f1\b0 Marriages in which husband and wife take distinctly separate family roles.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Concentric-zone theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of urban development holding that cities grow around a central business district in concentric zones, with each zone devoted to a different land use.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Concept\'a0
\f1\b0 A formal definition of what is being studied.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Conflict\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of social interaction involving direct struggle between individuals or groups over commonly valued resources or goals. Differs from competition because individuals are more interested in defeating an opponent than in achieving a goal.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Conflict approach\'a0
\f1\b0 One of the major theoretical perspectives in sociology: emphasizes the importance of unequal power and conflict in society.\'a0
\f2\i Weberian conflict theorists\'a0
\f1\i0 stress inequality and conflict based on class, status, power;\'a0
\f2\i Marxian theorists\'a0
\f1\i0 emphasize conflict and inequality based on ownership of the means of production.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Conformity\'a0
\f1\b0 Going along with the norms or behaviors of a group.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Conjugal family\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of family organization centered around the husband-wife relationship rather than around blood relationships.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area (CMSA)
\f1\b0 \'a0A "supercity" with more than one million people. There were 21 such cities in the United States in 1984.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Contact hypothesis\'a0
\f1\b0 The theory that people of different racial groups who became acquainted would be less prejudiced toward one another.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Contagion theory\'a0
\f1\b0 Le Bon's theory that the anonymity people feel in a crowd makes them susceptible to the suggestions of fanatical leaders, and that emotions can sweep through such a crowd like a virus.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Content analysis\'a0
\f1\b0 A research method used to describe and analyze in an objective and systematic way the content of literature, speeches, or other media presentations. The method helps to identify cultural themes or trends.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Content of socialization\'a0
\f1\b0 The ideas, beliefs, values, knowledge, and so forth that are presented to people who are being socialized.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Contest mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 The educational pattern in which selection for academic and university education is delayed and children compete throughout their schooling for high positions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Context of socialization\'a0
\f1\b0 The setting or arena within which socialization occurs.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Continued subjugation\'a0
\f1\b0 The use of force and ideology by one group to retain domination over another group.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Control group\'a0
\f1\b0 A group that is not exposed to the independent variable of interest to a researcher but whose members' backgrounds and experience are otherwise like those of the experimental group that is exposed to the independent variable.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Controlling for\'a0
\f1\b0 In research, the effort to hold constant factors that might be influencing observed changes in the dependent variable.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Convergence theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory suggesting that modernizing nations come to resemble one another over time. In collective behavior, a theory suggesting that certain crowds attract particular types of people, who may behave irrationally.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cooperation\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of social interaction involving collaborative effort among people to achieve a common goal.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cooptation\'a0
\f1\b0 A social process by which people who might otherwise threaten the stability or existence of an organization are brought into the leadership or policy-making structure of that organization.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Correlation\'a0
\f1\b0 An observed association between a change in the value of one variable and a change in the value of another variable.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Counterculture\'a0
\f1\b0 A subculture whose norms and values sharply contradict the dominant norms and values of the society in which it occurs.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Creationism\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory that sees all major types of living things, including people, as having been made by the direct creative action of God in six days.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Credential\'a0
\f1\b0 The educational degree or certificate used to determine a person's eligibility for a position.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Crime\'a0
\f1\b0 A behavior prohibited by law.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Criminal law\'a0
\f1\b0 Law enacted by recognized political authorities that prohibits or requires certain behaviors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Criteria for inferring causality\'a0
\f1\b0 Evidence that two variables are correlated and that the hypothesized cause preceded the hypothesized effect in time, as well as evidence eliminating rival hypotheses.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Crude birth rate\'a0
\f1\b0 The total number of live births per 1000 persons in a population within a particular year.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Crude death rate\'a0
\f1\b0 The number of deaths per 1000 persons occurring within a one-year period in a particular population.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cult
\f1\b0 \'a0An organized group of people who together act out religious feelings, attitudes, and relationships; may focus on an unusual form of worship or belief.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural capital\'a0
\f1\b0 Symbolic wealth socially defined as worthy of being sought and possessed.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural change\'a0
\f1\b0 Modifications or transformations of a culture's customs, values, ideas, or artifacts.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural determinism\'a0
\f1\b0 The view that the nature of a society is shaped primarily by the ideas and values of the people living in it.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural division of labor\'a0
\f1\b0 A situation in which a person's place in the occupational world is determined by his or her cultural markers (such as ethnicity).\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural imposition\'a0
\f1\b0 The forcing of members of one culture to adopt the practices of another culture.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural relativism\'a0
\f1\b0 The view that the customs and ideas of a society must be viewed within the context of that society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural revolution
\f1\b0 \'a0The repudiation of many existing cultural elements and the substitution of new ones.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cultural universals\'a0
\f1\b0 Cultural features, such as the use of language, shared by all human societies.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Culture\'a0
\f1\b0 The common heritage shared by the people of a society, consisting of customs, values, language, ideas, and artifacts.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Culture lag\'a0
\f1\b0 The time difference between the introduction of material innovations and resulting changes in cultural practices.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Culture of poverty\'a0
\f1\b0 A distinctive culture thought to develop among poor people and characterized by failure to delay gratification, fatalism, and weak family and community ties.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Culture pattern theory\'a0
\f1\b0 In the sociology of sport, a theory that explains aggression and violence in sport as learned behavior that mirrors the degree of aggression and violence in the society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Cyclical theories\'a0
\f1\b0 Theories of social change suggesting that societies follow a certain life course, from vigorous and innovative youth to more materialistic maturity and then to decline.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Deduction\'a0
\f1\b0 Reasoning from the general to the specific.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Defining the situation\'a0
\f1\b0 The socially created perspective that people apply to a situation.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Democracy\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of political organization in which power resides with the people and is exercised by them.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Democratic-collective organization\'a0
\f1\b0 An organization in which authority is placed in the group as a whole, rules are minimized, members have considerable control over their work, and job differentiation is minimized.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Demographic transition\'a0
\f1\b0 The demographic change experienced in Western Europe and North America since the industrial revolution in which the birth rate has declined so that it is about equal to the death rate.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Demography\'a0
\f1\b0 The scientific study of population size, composition, and distribution as well as patterns of change in those features.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Denomination\'a0
\f1\b0 One of a number of religious organizations in a society with no official state church. Has some formal doctrines, beliefs, and practices, but tolerates diverse religious views.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dependency theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory about the place of developing nations in the world economy suggesting that major industrial nations take advantage of the cheap labor and raw materials of developing nations and hence are reluctant to see them become industrialized.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dependent variable\'a0
\f1\b0 The variable that occurs or changes in a patterned way due to the presence of, or changes in, another variable or variables.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Descriptive study\'a0
\f1\b0 A research study whose goal is to describe the social phenomena being studied.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Deskilling\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of breaking down jobs into less complex segments that require less knowledge and judgment on the part of workers.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Deterrence theory\'a0
\f1\b0 The view that certain qualities of punishment-- such as certainty, swiftness, and severity-- will help prevent others from committing crimes that have been so punished.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Deviance\'a0
\f1\b0 Behaviors or characteristics that violate important social norms.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Deviant career\'a0
\f1\b0 The regular pursuit of activities regarded by the individual and by others as deviant.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Differential association\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory that attributes the existence of deviant behavior to learning from friends or associates.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Differentiation, functional\'a0
\f1\b0 The division of labor or of social roles within a society or an organization.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Differentiation, rank\'a0
\f1\b0 The unequal placement and evaluation of various social positions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Diffusion\'a0
\f1\b0 The spread of inventions and discoveries from one group or culture to another on a voluntary basis; a source of cultural change.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Discovery\'a0
\f1\b0 The uncovering of something that existed but was unknown; a source of cultural change.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Discrimination\'a0
\f1\b0 The unequal and unfair treatment of individuals or groups on the basis of some irrelevant characteristic, such as race, ethnicity, religion, sex, or social class.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Division of labor\'a0
\f1\b0 The assignment of specialized tasks to various members of a group, organization, community, or society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dominant status\'a0
\f1\b0 One social position that overshadows the other social positions an individual occupies.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Domination The\'a0
\f1\b0 control of one group or individual by another.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Double standard\'a0
\f1\b0 A set of social norms that allows males greater freedom of sexual expression, particularly before marriage, than females.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dramaturgical analysis\'a0
\f1\b0 An approach to social situations developed by Erving Goffman in which they are examined as though they were theatrical productions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dual-career families\'a0
\f1\b0 Families in which both husband and wife have careers.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dual-career responsibilities\'a0
\f1\b0 The responsibilities of women who are wives as well as workers\'8b often used to explain why women earn less.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dual economy\'a0
\f1\b0 The conceptual division of the private sector of the economy into monopoly (core) and competitive (periphery) sectors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dyad\'a0
\f1\b0 A group composed of two people.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Dysfunction\'a0
\f1\b0 Any consequence of a social system that disturbs or hinders the integration, adjustment, or stability of the system.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Ecological paradigm\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of land use and living patterns that examines the interplay among economic functions, geographical factors, demography, and the replacement of one group by another.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ecological succession\'a0
\f1\b0 In urban sociology, the replacement of one group by another over time.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ecological view\'a0
\f1\b0 An approach to the study of culture or other social phenomena that emphasizes the importance of examining climate, food and water supplies, and existing enemies in the environments.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ecology
\f1\b0 \'a0The scientific study of how organisms relate to one another and to their environments.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Economic core
\f1\b0 \'a0The sector of the economy characterized by large, generally very profitable, oligopolistic firms that are national or multinational in scope; also called the monopoly sector.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Economic growth\'a0
\f1\b0 An increase in the amount of goods and services produced with the same amount of labor and resources.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Economic institution
\f1\b0 \'a0The pattern of roles, norms, and activities organized around the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services in a society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Economic periphery\'a0
\f1\b0 The sector of the economy characterized by small, local, barely profitable firms; also called the competitive sector.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ecosystem\'a0
\f1\b0 A system formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with its environment.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Education\'a0
\f1\b0 The process, in school or beyond, of transmitting a society's knowledge, skills, values, and behaviors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Egalitarian marriage\'a0
\f1\b0 A family in which husband and wife share equally in family decision making.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ego
\f1\b0 \'a0In Freudian theory, a concept referring to the conscious, rational part of the personality structure, which mediates between the impulses of the id and the rules of society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Elderly dependency ratio\'a0
\f1\b0 The ratio between the number of the elderly (65 and over) and the number of working-age people (ages 18 to 64).\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Emergent norm theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of collective behavior suggesting that people move to form a shared definition of the situation in relatively normless situations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Emotion work\'a0
\f1\b0 An individual's effort to change an emotion or feeling to one that seems to be more appropriate to a given situation.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Equilibrium\'a0
\f1\b0 In functionalist theory, the view that the parts of a society fit together into a balanced whole.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ethnic group\'a0
\f1\b0 A group that shares a common cultural tradition and sense of identity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ethnocentrism\'a0
\f1\b0 The tendency to see one's own culture as superior to all others.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ethnography\'a0
\f1\b0 A detailed study based on actual observation of the way of life of a human group or society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ethnomethodology\'a0
\f1\b0 The study of the methods used by individuals to communicate and make sense of their everyday lives as members of society. Many ethnomethodologists focus on the study of language and everyday conversation.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Evangelicalism\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of Protestantism that stresses the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the validity of personal conversion, the Bible as the basis for belief, and active preaching of the faith.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Evolutionary theories\'a0
\f1\b0 Theories of social change that see societies as evolving from simpler forms to more complex ones. In biology, the theory that living organisms develop new traits that may aid their adaptation or survival.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Exchange\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of social interaction involving trade of tangibles (objects) or intangibles (sentiments) between individuals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Exchange theory\'a0
\f1\b0 An interpretive perspective that explains social interaction on the basis of the exchange of various tangible or intangible social rewards.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Experiment\'a0
\f1\b0 A carefully controlled situation where the independent variable is manipulated while everything else remains the same; the aim is to see whether the dependent variable will change.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Experimental group\'a0
\f1\b0 In research, the group of individuals exposed to the independent variable that is being introduced by the experimenter.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Explanatory study\'a0
\f1\b0 A research study with the goal of explaining how or why things happen the way they do in the social world.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Expressive\'a0
\f1\b0 A type of role that involves the showing of emotional feelings or preferences in interpersonal relationships.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Expressive leader\'a0
\f1\b0 A group leader whose role in the group is to help maintain stability through joking, mediating conflicts, and otherwise reducing tension.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Extended family\'a0
\f1\b0 A family in which relatives from several generations live together.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Face-work\'a0
\f1\b0 A term used by Goffman to refer to the actions taken by individuals to make their behavior appear consistent with the image they want to present.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Fads
\f1\b0 \'a0Striking behaviors that spread rapidly and that, even though embraced enthusiastically, remain popular for only a short time.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Family\'a0
\f1\b0 Two or more persons who are related by blood, marriage, adoption, or serious long-term commitment to each other, and who live together. They usually form an economic unit, and adult members care for the dependent children.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Fashion\'a0
\f1\b0 A socially approved but temporary style of appearance or behavior.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Flow
\f1\b0 \'a0An experience of total involvement in one's present activity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Folkways\'a0
\f1\b0 Social norms to which people generally conform, although they receive little pressure to do so.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Formal organizations\'a0
\f1\b0 Highly structured groups with specific objectives and usually clearly stated rules and regulations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Formal sanction\'a0
\f1\b0 A social reward or punishment that is administered in an organized, systematic way, such as receiving a diploma or getting a fine.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Functional approach\'a0
\f1\b0 A theoretical approach that analyzes social phenomena in terms of their functions in a social system.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Functional equivalent\'a0
\f1\b0 A feature or process in society that has the same function (consequence) as some other feature or process\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Functions\'a0
\f1\b0 The consequences of social phenomena for other parts of society or for society as a whole.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Fundamentalism\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of religious traditionalism characterized by the literal interpretation of religious texts, a conception of an active supernatural, and clear distinctions between sin and salvation.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Game
\f1\b0 \'a0A form of play involving competitive or cooperative interaction in which the outcome is determined by physical skill, strength, strategy, or chance.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gemeinschaft\'a0
\f1\b0 A term used by Tonnies to describe a small, traditional, community-centered society in which people have close, personal, face-to-face relationships and value social relationships as ends in themselves.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gender\'a0
\f1\b0 The traits and behaviors that are socially designated as "masculine" or "feminine" in a particular society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gender differences\'a0
\f1\b0 Variations in the social positions, roles, behaviors, attitudes, and personalities of men and women in a society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gender gap\'a0
\f1\b0 Differences in the way men and women vote.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gender-role expectations\'a0
\f1\b0 People's beliefs about how men and women should behave.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gender stratification\'a0
\f1\b0 The hierarchical ranking of men and women and their roles in terms of unequal ownership, power, social control, prestige, and social rewards.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Generalized other\'a0
\f1\b0 A general idea of the expectations, attitudes, and values of a group or community.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Genocide\'a0
\f1\b0 The destruction of an entire population.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gentrification\'a0
\f1\b0 The movement of middle-class and upper-middle-class persons (usually white) into lower-income, sometimes minority urban areas.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Gesellschaft\'a0
\f1\b0 A term used by Tonnies to describe an urban industrial society in which people have impersonal, formal, contractual, and specialized relationships and tend to use social relationships as a means to an end.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Global economy\'a0
\f1\b0 An economy in which the economic life and health of one nation depends on what happens in other nations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Green revolution\'a0
\f1\b0 The improvement in agricultural production based on higher-yielding grains and increased use of fertilizers, pesticides, and irrigation.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Groups\'a0
\f1\b0 Collections of people who share some common goals and norms and whose relationships are usually based on interactions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Groupthink\'a0
\f1\b0 The tendency of individuals to follow the ideas or actions of a group.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Health maintenance organizations (HMOs)\'a0
\f1\b0 Organizations that people pay a fee to join in return for access to a range of health services.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Heterosexual\'a0
\f1\b0 A person whose preferred partner for erotic, emotional, and sexual interaction is someone of the opposite sex.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Hierarchy\'a0
\f1\b0 The arrangement of positions in a rank order, with those below reporting to those above.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Hispanics\'a0
\f1\b0 A general term referring to Spanish-speaking persons. It includes many distinct ethnic groups.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Homosexual\'a0
\f1\b0 Someone who is emotionally, erotically, and physically attracted to persons of his or her own sex.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Horizontal mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 Movement from one social status to another of about equal rank in the social hierarchy.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Horticultural societies\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies in which the cultivation of plants with hoes is the primary means of subsistence.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Hospice\'a0
\f1\b0 An organization designed to provide care and comfort for terminally ill persons and their families.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Human-capital explanation\'a0
\f1\b0 The view that the earnings of different workers vary because of differences in their education or experience.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Hunting and gathering societies\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies that obtain food by hunting animals, fishing, and gathering fruits, nuts, and grains. These societies do not plant crops or have domesticated animals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Hybrid economy\'a0
\f1\b0 An economic system that blends features of both centrally planned and capitalist (market) economies.\

\f0\b Hyperinflation\'a0
\f1\b0 Anextreme form of inflation.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Hypothesis\'a0
\f1\b0 A tentative statement asserting a relationship between one factor and something else (based on theory, prior research, or general observation).\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Id\'a0
\f1\b0 In Freudian theory, a concept referring to the unconscious instinctual impulses-- for instance, sexual or aggressive impulses.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ideal values\'a0
\f1\b0 Values that people say are important to them, whether or not their behavior supports those values.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Identification theories\'a0
\f1\b0 Views suggesting that children learn gender roles by identifying with and copying the same-sex parent.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ideology\'a0
\f1\b0 A system of ideas that reflects, rationalizes, and defends the interests of those who believe in it.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Impression management\'a0
\f1\b0 A term used by Goffman to describe the efforts of individuals to influence how others perceive them.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Incest\'a0
\f1\b0 Sexual intercourse with close family members.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Incest taboo
\f1\b0 \'a0The prohibition of sexual intercourse between fathers and daughters, mothers and sons, and brothers and sisters.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Income\'a0
\f1\b0 The sum of money wages and salaries (earnings) plus income other than earnings.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Independent variable The\'a0
\f1\b0 variable whose occurrence or change results in the occurrence or change of another variable; the hypothesized cause of something else.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Individualism\'a0
\f1\b0 A belief in individual rights and responsibilities.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Induction\'a0
\f1\b0 Reasoning from the particular to the general.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Industrialization\'a0
\f1\b0 The shift within a nation's economy from a primarily agricultural base to a manufacturing base.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Industrialized societies\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies that rely on mechanized production, rather than on human or animal labor, as the primary means of subsistence.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Inflation\'a0
\f1\b0 An increase in the supply of money in circulation that exceeds the rate of economic growth, making money worth less in relation to the goods and services it can buy.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Informal sanction\'a0
\f1\b0 A social reward or punishment that is given informally through social interaction, such as an approving smile or a disapproving frown.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Innovation\'a0
\f1\b0 The discovery or invention of new ideas, things, or methods; a source of cultural change.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Instinct\'a0
\f1\b0 A genetically determined behavior triggered by specific conditions or events.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Institution of science\'a0
\f1\b0 The social communities that share certain theories and methods aimed at understanding the physical and social worlds.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Institutionalization of science\'a0
\f1\b0 The establishment of careers for practicing scientists in major social institutions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Institutionalized\'a0
\f1\b0 Social practices that have become established, patterned, and predictable and that are supported by custom, tradition, and/or law.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Institutions
\f1\b0 \'a0The patterned and enduring roles, statuses, and norms that have formed around successful strategies for meeting basic social needs.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Instrumental\'a0
\f1\b0 A type of role that involves problem-solving or task-oriented behavior in group or interpersonal relationships.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Instrumental leader\'a0
\f1\b0 A group leader whose role is to keep the group's attention directed to the task at hand.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Interest group\'a0
\f1\b0 A group of people who work to influence political decisions affecting them.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Intergenerational mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 A vertical change of social status from one generation to the next.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Interlocking directorates
\f1\b0 \'a0The practice of overlapping memberships on corporate boards of directors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Intermittent reinforcement\'a0
\f1\b0 In learning theory, the provision of a reward sometimes but not always when a desired behavior is shown.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Internalization\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of taking social norms, roles, and values into one's own mind.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Interpretive approach\'a0
\f1\b0 One of the major theoretical perspectives in sociology; focuses on how individuals make sense of the world and react to the symbolic meanings attached to social life.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Intragenerational mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 A vertical change of social status experienced by an individual within his or her own lifetime.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Invention\'a0
\f1\b0 An innovation in material or nonmaterial culture, often produced by combining existing cultural elements in new ways; a source of cultural change.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 "I" portion of the self\'a0
\f1\b0 In George Herbert Mead's view, the spontaneous or impulsive portion of the self.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 IQ (intelligence quotient) test\'a0
\f1\b0 A standardized set of questions or problems designed to measure verbal and numerical knowledge and reasoning.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 "Iron law of oligarchy"\'a0
\f1\b0 In Robert Michels' view, the idea that power in an organization tends to become concentrated in the hands of a small group of leaders.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Keynesian economics\'a0
\f1\b0 The economic theory advanced by John Maynard Keynes, which holds that government intervention, through deficit spending, may be necessary to maintain high levels of employment.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Kinship\'a0
\f1\b0 Socially defined family relationships, including those based on common parentage, marriage, or adoption.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Labeling theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of deviance that focuses on the process by which some people are labeled deviant by other people (and thus take on deviant identities) rather than on the nature of the behavior itself.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Labor-market segmentation\'a0
\f1\b0 The existence of two or more distinct labor markets, one of which is open only to individuals of a particular gender or ethnicity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Laissez-faire economics
\f1\b0 \'a0The economic theory advanced by Adam Smith, which holds that the economic system develops and functions best when left to market forces, without government intervention.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Language\'a0
\f1\b0 Spoken or written symbols combined into a system and governed by rules.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Latent function
\f1\b0 \'a0The unintended and/or unrecognized function or consequence of some thing or process in a social system.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Law\'a0
\f1\b0 The system of formalized rules established by political authorities and backed by the power of the state for the purpose of controlling or regulating social behavior.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Learning theory\'a0
\f1\b0 In psychology, the theory that specific human behaviors are acquired or forgotten as a result of the rewards or punishments associated with them.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Legal protection\'a0
\f1\b0 The protection of minority-group members through the official policy of a governing unit.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Legitimate\'a0
\f1\b0 In reference to power, the sense by people in a situation that those who are exercising power have the right to do so.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Lesbian\'a0
\f1\b0 A woman who is emotionally, erotically, and physically attracted to other women.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Life chances\'a0
\f1\b0 The probabilities of an individual having access to or failing to have access to various opportunities or difficulties in society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Life course\'a0
\f1\b0 The biological and social sequence of birth, growing up, maturity, aging, and death.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Life-course analysis\'a0
\f1\b0 An examination of the ways in which different stages of life influence socialization and behavior.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Life expectancy\'a0
\f1\b0 The average years of life anticipated for people born in a particular year.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Life-style\'a0
\f1\b0 Family, child-bearing, and educational attitudes and practices; personal values; type of residence; consumer, political, and civic behavior; religion.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Life table\'a0
\f1\b0 A statistical table that presents the death rate and life expectancy of each of a series of age-sex categories for a particular population.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Line job\'a0
\f1\b0 A job that is part of the central operations of an organization rather than one that provides support services for the operating structure.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Lobbying
\f1\b0 \'a0The process of trying to influence political decisions so they will be favorable to one's interests and goals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Location\'a0
\f1\b0 In Kanter's view, a person's position in an organization with respect to having control over decision making.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Looking-glass self\'a0
\f1\b0 The sense of self an individual derives from the way others view and treat him or her.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Macro level\'a0
\f1\b0 An analysis of societies that focuses on large-scale institutions, structures, and processes.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Magic\'a0
\f1\b0 According to Malinowski, "a practical art consisting of acts which are only means to a definite end expected to follow."\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Manifest function
\f1\b0 \'a0The intended function or consequence of some thing or process in a social system.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Marriage\'a0
\f1\b0 A social institution that recognizes and approves the sexual union of two or more individuals and includes a set of mutual rights and obligations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Marriage rate\'a0
\f1\b0 Number of marriages in a year per 1000 single women 15 to 44 years old.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Marriage squeeze\'a0
\f1\b0 A situation in which the eligible individuals of one sex outnumber the supply of potential marriage partners of the other sex.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Marxian approach\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory that uses the ideas of Karl Marx and stresses the importance of class struggle centered around the social relations of economic production.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Mass hysteria\'a0
\f1\b0 Widely felt fear and anxiety.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Mass media\'a0
\f1\b0 Widely disseminated forms of communication, such as books, magazines, radio, television, and movies.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Matthew effect\'a0
\f1\b0 The social process whereby one advantage an individual has is likely to lead to additional advantages.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Mean, arithmetic\'a0
\f1\b0 The sum of a set of mathematical values divided by the number of values; a measure of central tendency in a series of data.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Median\'a0
\f1\b0 The number that cuts a distribution of figures in half; a positional measure of central tendency in a series of data.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Medicaid\'a0
\f1\b0 A federal-state matching program that provides medical assistance to certain low income persons.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Medicare\'a0
\f1\b0 A federal health insurance program. Individuals are eligible if they receive Social Security benefits, federal disability benefits, or sometimes if they have end-stage kidney disease.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 "Me" portion of the self\'a0
\f1\b0 In George Herbert Mead's view, the portion of the self that brings the influence of others into the individual's consciousness.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Method of comparison\'a0
\f1\b0 An approach that compares one subgroup or society with another one for the purpose of understanding social differences.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Methodology\'a0
\f1\b0 The rules, principles, and practices that guide the collection of evidence and the conclusions drawn from it.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA)\'a0
\f1\b0 A geographical area containing either one city with 50,000 or more residents or an urban area of at least 50,000 inhabitants and a total population of at least 100,000 (except in New England where the required total is 75,000).\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Micro level\'a0
\f1\b0 An analysis of societies that focuses on small-scale process, such as how individuals interact and how they attach meanings to the social actions of others.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Migration\'a0
\f1\b0 The relatively permanent movement of people from one area to another.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Millenarian movements\'a0
\f1\b0 Social movements based on the expectation that society will be suddenly transformed through supernatural intervention.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Minority group\'a0
\f1\b0 Any recognizable racial, religious, ethnic, or social group that suffers from some disadvantage resulting from the action of a dominant group with higher social status and greater privileges.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Mode
\f1\b0 \'a0The value that occurs most often in a series of mathematical values.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Modeling\'a0
\f1\b0 Copying the behavior of admired people.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Modernization\'a0
\f1\b0 The economic and social transformation that occurs when a traditional agricultural society becomes highly industrialized.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Monopoly\'a0
\f1\b0 The exclusive control of a particular industry, market, service, or commodity by a single organization.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Mores\'a0
\f1\b0 Strongly held social norms, a violation of which causes a sense of moral outrage.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Mortality rate\'a0
\f1\b0 The number of deaths per thousand in a population.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Multinational corporation\'a0
\f1\b0 A corporation that locates its operations in a number of nations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Multiple-nuclei theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of urban development holding that cities develop around a number of different centers, each with its own special activities.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Nation\'a0
\f1\b0 A relatively autonomous political grouping that usually shares a common language and a particular geography.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Nation-state\'a0
\f1\b0 A social organization in which political authority overlaps a cultural and geographical community.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Negative sanctions\'a0
\f1\b0 Actions intended to deter or punish unwanted social behaviors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Negotiation\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of social interaction in which two or more parties in conflict or competition arrive at a mutually satisfactory agreement.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Network\'a0
\f1\b0 See\'a0
\f2\i Social network.
\f1\i0 \cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Nomadic\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies that move their residences from place to place.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Nonverbal communication\'a0
\f1\b0 Visual and other meaningful symbols that do not use language.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Norm\'a0
\f1\b0 A shared rule about acceptable or unacceptable social behavior.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Normal science\'a0
\f1\b0 A term used by Kuhn to describe research based on one or more past scientific achievements that are accepted as a useful foundation for further study.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Nuclear family\'a0
\f1\b0 A family form consisting of a married couple and their children.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Objectivity\'a0
\f1\b0 Procedures researchers follow to minimize distortions in observation or interpretation due to personal or social values.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Occupation\'a0
\f1\b0 A position in the world of work that involves specialized knowledge and activities.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Occupational segregation\'a0
\f1\b0 The concentration of workers by gender or ethnicity into certain jobs but not others.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Oligarchy\'a0
\f1\b0 The rule of the many by the few.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Oligopoly
\f1\b0 \'a0The control of a particular industry, market, service, or commodity by a few large organizations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Open system\'a0
\f1\b0 In organizational theory, the degree to which an organization is open to and dependent on its environment.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Operationalization\'a0
\f1\b0 In research, the actual procedures or operations conducted to measure a variable.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Opportunity\'a0
\f1\b0 In an organization, the potential that a particular position contains for the expansion of work responsibilities and rewards.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Organization\'a0
\f1\b0 A social group deliberately formed to pursue certain values and goals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Organizational ritualism\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of behavior in organizations, particularly in bureaucracies, in which people follow the rules and regulations so closely that they forget the purpose of those rules and regulations.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Organizational waste\'a0
\f1\b0 The inefficient use of ideas, expertise, money, or material in an organization.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Panic\'a0
\f1\b0 A frightened response by an aggregate of people to an immediate threat.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Paradigm\'a0
\f1\b0 In the sociology of science, a coherent tradition of scientific law, theory, and assumptions that forms a distinct approach to problems.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Parallel marriage\'a0
\f1\b0 When husband and wife both work and share household tasks.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Participant observation\'a0
\f1\b0 A research method in which the researcher does observation while taking part in the activities of the social group being studied.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Pastoral societies\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies in which the raising and herding of animals such as sheep, goats, and cows is the primary means of subsistence.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Patriarchal family\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of family organization in which the father is the formal head of the family.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Peer group\'a0
\f1\b0 Friends and associates of about the same age and social status.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Play
\f1\b0 \'a0Spontaneous activity undertaken freely for its own sake yet governed by rules and often characterized by an element of make-believe.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Pluralism\'a0
\f1\b0 In ethnic relations, the condition that exists when both majority and minority groups value their distinct cultural identities, and at the same time seek economic and political unity. In political sociology, the view that society is composed of competing interest groups, with power diffused among them.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Policy research\'a0
\f1\b0 Research designed to assess alternative possibilities for public or social action, in terms of their costs and/or consequences.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Political economy model\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of land use that emphasizes the role of political and economic interests.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Political order\'a0
\f1\b0 The institutionalized system of acquiring and exercising power.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Political party\'a0
\f1\b0 An organized group of people that seeks to control or influence political decisions through legal means.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Population\'a0
\f1\b0 In demography, all the people living in a given geographic area. In research, the total number of cases with a particular characteristic.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Population exclusion\'a0
\f1\b0 The efforts of a society to prevent ethnically different groups from joining it.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Population transfer\'a0
\f1\b0 The efforts of a dominant ethnic group to move or remove members of a minority ethnic group from a particular area.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Positive sanctions\'a0
\f1\b0 Rewards for socially desired behavior.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Positivist\'a0
\f1\b0 An approach to explaining human action that does not take into account the individual's interpretation of the situation.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Postindustrial society\'a0
\f1\b0 A term used by Daniel Bell to refer to societies organized around knowledge and planning rather than around industrial production.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Power
\f1\b0 \'a0The capacity of an individual group to control or influence the behavior of others, even in the face of opposition.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Power elite\'a0
\f1\b0 According to Mills, a closely connected group of the corporate rich, political leaders, and military commanders who decide most key social and political issues.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Prejudice\'a0
\f1\b0 A "prejudged" unfavorable attitude toward the members of a particular group, who are assumed to possess negative traits.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Prestige\'a0
\f1\b0 A social recognition, respect, and deference accorded individuals or groups based on their social status.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Primary deviance\'a0
\f1\b0 Deviant behavior that is invisible to others, short- lived, or unimportant, and therefore does not contribute to the public labeling of an individual as being deviant.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Primary economic sector\'a0
\f1\b0 The sector of an economy in which natural resources are gathered or extracted.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Primary group\'a0
\f1\b0 A social group characterized by frequent face-to-face interaction, the commitment and emotional ties members feel for one another, and relative permanence.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Principle of cumulative advantage\'a0
\f1\b0 A process whereby the positive features of some institutions help to generate further benefits for them.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Privatization\'a0
\f1\b0 The tendency of families in industrial societies to turn away from the community and workplace toward a primary focus on privacy, domesticity, and intimacy.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Processes of socialization\'a0
\f1\b0 Those interactions that convey to persons being socialized how they are to speak, behave, think, and feel.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Profession\'a0
\f1\b0 AIR occupation that rests on a theoretical body of knowledge and thus requires specialized training usually recognized by the granting of a degree or credential.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Projection\'a0
\f1\b0 A psychological process of attributing ones own unacceptable feelings or desires to other people to avoid guilt and self-blame.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Property\'a0
\f1\b0 The rights and obligations a group or individual has in relation to an object, resource, or activity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Proposition\'a0
\f1\b0 A statement about how variables are related to each other.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Prostitution\'a0
\f1\b0 The selling of sexual favors.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Race
\f1\b0 \'a0A classification of humans into groups based on distinguishable physical characteristics that may form the basis for significant social identities.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Racism\'a0
\f1\b0 The institutionalized domination of one racial group by another.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Random sample\'a0
\f1\b0 A sample of units drawn from a larger population in such a way that every unit has a known and equal chance of being selected.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Range\'a0
\f1\b0 The total spread of values in a set of figures .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Rank Place in a social hierarchy.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \cb3 Rank differentiation\'a0
\f1\b0 See\'a0
\f2\i Differentiation, rank.
\f1\i0 \cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Rape
\f1\b0 \'a0A completed sexual assault by a male, usually upon a female, although sometimes upon another male.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rate of natural increase\'a0
\f1\b0 The difference between birth and death rates, excluding immigration.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rationalization\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of subjecting social relationships to calculation and administration.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Real values\'a0
\f1\b0 The values people consider truly important, as evident in their behavior and how they spend their time and money.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rebellion\'a0
\f1\b0 In anomie theory, a form of deviance that occurs when individuals reject culturally valued means and goals and substitute new means and goals. In political sociology, the expression of opposition to an established authority.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Reference group\'a0
\f1\b0 A social group whose standards and opinions are used by an individual to help define or evaluate beliefs, values, and behaviors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Reform movement\'a0
\f1\b0 A type of social movement that accepts the status quo but seeks certain specific social reforms.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Regressive movement\'a0
\f1\b0 A type of social movement whose aim is to move the social world back to where members believe it was at an earlier time.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Relative poverty\'a0
\f1\b0 The condition of having much less income than the average person in society, even if one can afford the necessities of life.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Religion\'a0
\f1\b0 A set of shared beliefs and rituals common to a special community and focusing on the sacred and supernatural.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Religious movement\'a0
\f1\b0 An organized religious group with the primary goal of changing existing religious institutions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Research and development\'a0
\f1\b0 (R&D) Investments in basic research and in the practical application of basic research discoveries.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Research design\'a0
\f1\b0 The specific plan for conducting a research study, including sampling, measurement, and data analysis.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Resocialization\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of socializing people away from a group or activity in which they are involved.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Resource mobilization theory\'a0
\f1\b0 The theory that social movements are affected by their ability to marshal various key resources.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Retreatism\'a0
\f1\b0 In anomie theory, a form of deviance that occurs when individuals abandon culturally valued means and goals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Revolution\'a0
\f1\b0 A large-scale change in the political leadership of a society and the restructuring of major features of that society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Revolutionary movement\'a0
\f1\b0 A type of social movement whose aim is to reorganize existing society completely.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Riot\'a0
\f1\b0 A destructive and sometimes violent collective outburst.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rising expectations\'a0
\f1\b0 A situation in which people feel that past hardships should not have to be suffered in the future.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ritual\'a0
\f1\b0 In the sociology of religion, the rules of conduct concerning behavior in the presence of the sacred. Intended to produce feelings of reverence, awe, and group identity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ritualism\'a0
\f1\b0 In anomie theory, a form of deviance in which individuals lose sight of socially valued goals but conform closely to socially prescribed means.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rival hypothesis\'a0
\f1\b0 An explanation that competes with the original hypothesis in a study.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role\'a0
\f1\b0 To functionalists, the culturally prescribed and socially patterned behaviors associated with particular social positions. For interactionists, the effort to mesh the demands of a social position with one's own identity.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role accumulation
\f1\b0 \'a0Adding more statuses and roles to the ones an individual already has.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role conflict\'a0
\f1\b0 A situation in which two or more social roles make incompatible demands on a person.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role exit\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of leaving a role that is central to one's identity and building an identity in a new role while also taking into account one's prior role.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role expectations\'a0
\f1\b0 Commonly shared norms about how a person is supposed to behave in a particular role.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role performance\'a0
\f1\b0 The behaviors of a person performing a certain social role.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Role set\'a0
\f1\b0 The cluster of roles that accompanies a particular status.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rowdyism\'a0
\f1\b0 Generalized interpersonal violence or property destruction occurring at spectator events.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Ruling class\'a0
\f1\b0 A small class that controls the means of economic production and dominates political decisions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Rumor\'a0
\f1\b0 A report that is passed informally from one person to another without firm evidence.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Sample survey\'a0
\f1\b0 A systematic method of collecting information from respondents, using personal interviews or written questionnaires.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sanction\'a0
\f1\b0 A social reward or punishment for approved or disapproved behavior; can be positive or negative, formal or informal.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Scapegoating\'a0
\f1\b0 Blaming a convenient but innocent person or group for one's trouble or guilt.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Schooling\'a0
\f1\b0 Formal education.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Science\'a0
\f1\b0 An approach used to obtain reliable knowledge about the physical and social worlds, based on systematic empirical observations; the knowledge so obtained.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Scientific productivity\'a0
\f1\b0 Making new discoveries, confirming or disconfirming theoretical hypotheses through experimentation and other types of research, and publishing the results of that research.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Scientific revolution\'a0
\f1\b0 The dramatic overthrow of one intellectual paradigm by another.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Secondary deviance\'a0
\f1\b0 Behavior discovered by others and publicly labeled by them as deviant.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Secondary economic sector\'a0
\f1\b0 The sector of an economy in which raw materials are turned into manufactured goods.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Secondary group\'a0
\f1\b0 A social group bound together for the accomplishment of common tasks, with few emotional ties among members.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sect\'a0
\f1\b0 An exclusive, highly cohesive group of ascetic religious believers. Sects usually last longer and are more institutionalized than cults.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sector theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory of urban development explaining that cities develop in wedge-shaped patterns following transportation systems.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Secularization\'a0
\f1\b0 The erosion of belief in the supernatural. Includes a growing respect for rationality, cultural and religious pluralism, tolerance of moral ambiguity, faith in education, and belief in civil rights, the rule of law, and due process.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Self-fulfilling prophecy\'a0
\f1\b0 A belief or prediction about a person or situation that influences that person or situation in such a way that the belief or prediction comes true.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sex\'a0
\f1\b0 The biological distinction of being male or female.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sibling\'a0
\f1\b0 A brother or sister.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social categories\'a0
\f1\b0 Groups of people who may not interact but who share certain social characteristics or statuses.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social change\'a0
\f1\b0 A modification or transformation in the way society is organized.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social class\'a0
\f1\b0 A group's position in a social hierarchy based on prestige and/or property ownership.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social construction of reality\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of socially creating definitions of situations so that they appear to be natural.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social control\'a0
\f1\b0 The relatively patterned and systematic ways in which society guides and restrains individual behaviors so that people act in predictable and desirable ways.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social forces\'a0
\f1\b0 The social structures and culture individuals face in a society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social inequality\'a0
\f1\b0 The existence of unequal opportunities or rewards for people in different social positions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social interaction\'a0
\f1\b0 The ways people behave in relation to one another by means of language, gestures, and symbols.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Socialist societies\'a0
\f1\b0 Societies in which productive resources are owned and controlled by the state rather than by individuals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Socialization\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of preparing newcomers to become members of an existing social group by helping them to learn the attitudes and behaviors that are considered appropriate.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social learning theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of learning theory suggesting that people learn through observation and imitation, even though they are not rewarded or punished for certain behaviors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 The movement from one status to another within a stratified society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social movement\'a0
\f1\b0 A group of people who work together to guide or suppress particular changes in the way society is organized.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social network\'a0
\f1\b0 A set of interdependent relations or links between individuals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social psychology\'a0
\f1\b0 The scientific study of how individual behavior is socially influenced.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social relations of production\'a0
\f1\b0 The organization of economic life on the basis of owning or not owning the means of production, purchasing or selling labor power, and controlling or not controlling other people's labor power.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social sciences
\f1\b0 \'a0Disciplines related to sociology that study human activity and communication, including psychology, anthropology, economics, political science.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social stratification\'a0
\f1\b0 The fairly permanent ranking of positions in a society in terms of unequal power, prestige, or privilege.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Social structure
\f1\b0 \'a0Recurrent and patterned relationships among individuals, organizations, nations, or other social units.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Society\'a0
\f1\b0 A group of people with a shared and somewhat distinct culture who live in a defined territory, feel some unity as a group, and see themselves as distinct from other peoples.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sociobiology\'a0
\f1\b0 The scientific study of the biological basis for human behavior.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Socioeconomic status (SES)\'a0
\f1\b0 An index of social status that considers a person's occupation, education, and income as measures of social status.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sociology\'a0
\f1\b0 The study and analysis of patterned social relationships in modern societies.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sovereignty\'a0
\f1\b0 The authority claimed by a state to maintain a legal system, use coercive power to secure obedience, and maintain its independence from other states.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sponsored mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 A pattern in which certain children are selected at an early age for academic and university education and are thus helped to achieve higher social status.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sport\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of game in which the outcome is affected by physical skill.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Staff job\'a0
\f1\b0 In an organization, an advisory or administrative job that supports the manufacturing, production, selling, or other primary activities of the organization.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Stage theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory suggesting that nations go through various systematic stages of development.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 State\'a0
\f1\b0 The institutionalized, legal organization of power within territorial limits.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 State sector\'a0
\f1\b0 The sector of the economy controlled by local, state, or federal governments that supplies goods and services under direct contract to that state.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 State terrorism\'a0
\f1\b0 The use of torture, death squads, and disappearances by political states to intimidate citizens.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Status\'a0
\f1\b0 A socially defined position in society that carries with it certain prescribed rights, obligations, and expected behaviors.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Status-attainment model\'a0
\f1\b0 A view of social mobility suggesting the importance of father's education, father's occupation, son's education, and son's first job for a man's adult status. (Early research was based only on men.)\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Status group\'a0
\f1\b0 People who share a social identity based on similar values and life-styles.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Status inconsistency\'a0
\f1\b0 May occur when an individual occupies two or more unequal statuses in a society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Stigmatization\'a0
\f1\b0 The process of spoiling a person's identity by labeling him or her in a negative way.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Structural change\'a0
\f1\b0 Demographic, economic, and rank-order changes in a society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Structural-functional perspective\'a0
\f1\b0 One of the major theoretical perspectives in sociology, developed by Talcott Parsons: focuses on how the various parts of society fit together or adjust to maintain the equilibrium of the whole.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Subculture\'a0
\f1\b0 A distinguishable group that shares a number of features with the dominant culture within which it exists while also having unique features such as language, customs, or values.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Subjective meanings\'a0
\f1\b0 The values and interpretations individuals place on their life situations and experiences; may vary from person to person.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Subjective social class\'a0
\f1\b0 A person's own perception of his or her class position.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Suburb\'a0
\f1\b0 A fairly small community within an urban area that includes a central city.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Sunbelt\'a0
\f1\b0 The area south of the 37th parallel in the United States, including Clark County in Nevada.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Superego\'a0
\f1\b0 In Freudian theory, the part of the personality structure that upholds the norms of society.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Symbol\'a0
\f1\b0 Any object or sign that evokes a shared social response.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Symbolic interaction\'a0
\f1\b0 Interaction that relies on shared symbols such as language.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Symbolic interactionism\'a0
\f1\b0 An interpretive perspective, inspired by the work of George Herbert Mead, saying that individuals learn meanings through interaction with others and then organize their lives around these socially created meanings.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Taboo\'a0
\f1\b0 A strongly prohibited social practice; the strongest form of social norm.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Technological determinism\'a0
\f1\b0 The belief that technological development shapes social life in rather fixed ways.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Technology\'a0
\f1\b0 The practical applications of scientific knowledge.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Tension release theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory suggesting that sport serves as a form of social safety valve, allowing individuals to vent their seething aggressions.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Terrorism\'a0
\f1\b0 An attack on people designed to frighten society and force it to meet the terrorists' demands.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Tertiary economic sector\'a0
\f1\b0 The sector of an economy that offers services to individuals as well as to business.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Theoretical approach\'a0
\f1\b0 A set of guiding ideas.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A system of orienting ideas, concepts, and relationships that provides a way of organizing the observable world.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Theory\'a0
\f1\b0 X A view of organizational behavior suggesting that people hate their jobs, want to avoid responsibility, resist change, and do not care about organizational needs.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Theory\'a0
\f1\b0 Y A view of organizational behavior suggesting that people have the desire to work, to be creative, and to take responsibility for their jobs and for the organization.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Theory\'a0
\f1\b0 Z A form of organizational culture that values long-term employment, trust, and close personal relationships between workers and managers.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Total fertility rate\'a0
\f1\b0 An estimate of the average number of children that would be born to each woman over her reproductive life if current age-specific birth rates remained constant.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Total institution\'a0
\f1\b0 A place where people spend 24 hours of every day for an extended part of their lives, cut off from the rest of society and tightly controlled by the people in charge.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Totalitarianism\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of autocracy that involves the use of state power to control and regulate all phases of life.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Tournament selection\'a0
\f1\b0 An educational pattern in which a continual process of selection serves to weed out candidates; winners move on to the next round of selection and losers are eliminated from the competition.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Tracking\'a0
\f1\b0 The practice of grouping students by ability, curriculum, or both.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Triad\'a0
\f1\b0 A group composed of three people.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Underemployment\'a0
\f1\b0 The hiring of people in jobs that are not customarily filled by individuals with their relatively high levels of experience or education.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Underground economy\'a0
\f1\b0 Exchanges of goods and services that occur outside the arena of the normal, regulated economy and therefore escape official record keeping.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Unit of analysis\'a0
\f1\b0 Who or what is being studied in a piece of social research.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Urbanization\'a0
\f1\b0 The growth of cities.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Value-added theory\'a0
\f1\b0 A theory suggesting that many instances of collective behavior represent efforts to change the social environment.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Values\'a0
\f1\b0 Strongly held general ideas that people share about what is good and bad, desirable or undesirable; values provide yardsticks for judging specific acts and goals.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Variable\'a0
\f1\b0 A logical set of attributes with different degrees of magnitude or different categories. For example, age is a variable on which people can be classified according to the number of years they have lived.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Verstehen\'a0
\f1\b0 The effort to understand social behavior in terms of the motives individuals bring to it.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Vertical integration\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of business organization that attempts to control the business environment by assuming control of one or more of its resources or business outlets.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Vertical mobility\'a0
\f1\b0 Movement of an individual or a group upward or downward, from one social status to another.\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Wealth\'a0
\f1\b0 The total value (minus debts) of what is owned.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 Weberian approach\'a0
\f1\b0 The views held by conflict theorists who, using the ideas of Max Weber, stress the significance of conflict in social life, especially conflict among status groups such as those based on occupation, ethnic background, or religion.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 White-collar crime\'a0
\f1\b0 Crimes committed by "respectable" individuals, often while they practice their occupations-- for example, embezzling money or stealing computer time.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 White ethnics\'a0
\f1\b0 White Americans who value and preserve aspects of their ethnic heritage.\cb1 \

\f0\b \cb3 World systems analysis\'a0
\f1\b0 A form of sociological analysis that stresses understanding national behavior in terms of historical and contemporary relationships among nations and societies .\cb1 \
\

\f0\b \cb3 Zero population growth (ZPG)\'a0
\f1\b0 The situation that occurs when the population of a nation or the world remains stable from one year to the next.\
}